---
layout: post
title: This Week in Design
author: Sophie
tags:
- design
- typography
---

We as a company are passionate about good design, I’m dedicating a portion of
This Week in Design updates to talk about concepts in design and usability that
I’ve found helpful day-to-day. This week I’ll go over three fundamentals that
are very straight forward, but that I think are key in driving great design.

**1. "95% of Design is Typography"**

Type is not typically the first consideration when thinking of UI, but the vast
majority of interfaces and designs still communicate with people via written
language. In practice typography is not about choosing fonts, but about
allowing people to focus on and digest your message.

Use big fonts. Big text will render you incapable of cramming too much
information in your design.  Web designers most recently recommend 16px for
website body text, Guy Kawasaki recommends 30px for presentation slides. Which
initially seems way too big, and that brings us to…

Embrace white space.  Nielson says the basic rule is 10-15 words per line. Much
more and you cause fatigue going across the screen, much less and you cause eye
skittering from line to line.  White space directs spacial relation, defines
hierarchy, and makes visual impact.  White space doesn’t have to be white.

<center><img
src="/images/post-images/this-week-in-design/presentation_slides.png"
width="300"/></center>

Manage focus with contrast. When creating info-heavy sites or mobile interfaces
where scannability is a critical aspect of your design, direct focus with high
contrast between important and unimportant elements. Sidenote- never use pure
black on pure white for digital screens. #111 is the closest black that won’t
flicker.

**2. Remember proportions**

Many designers use pre-prescribed grids for determining the sizes and width of
interfaces, because often when the proportion and balance click together the
design just "feels right."   There are quite a few wireframe / css templates
[960.gs](http://960.gs/)  out there with grid design, but the concept itself is simple
to store to your brain- it’s about giving each content block room to breath,
and managing cognitive load as the eyes scan down the page.  This is the Rule
of Thirds grid for web design.

<center><img src="/images/post-images/this-week-in-design/thirds.png"
width="300"/></center>


Another aspect of proportion is visual balance, the perceived amount of weight
and stability between the upper / lower, left / right of the screen.  Apple’s
site achieves a good deal of visual harmony by having the left and right sides
of the page be exact symmetrical mirror images.

<center><img src="/images/post-images/this-week-in-design/apple1.jpg"
width="300"/></center>


**3. Use effective colors**

Use warm color (red, orange, gold) to direct attention. Warm colors visually
expand outward (glow), cold colors visually contract. Red is said to be the
most effective hue to incite action, a concept especially noticeable around
election time when virtually every candidate campaign site is composed of red
Donate buttons on a cold blue backdrop. Use blue for links, usability research
says people will find them faster.

<center><img
src="/images/post-images/this-week-in-design/screen-shot-2011-10-14-at-6-05-58-pm.png"
width="300"/></center>

Don’t be afraid of using color as a non-designer. Create a palette of 3-5
colors and be consistent. You don’t need to be into the touchy-feeling stuff
about what emotions individual colors evoke or understand ‘tetradic
complementary’ means. There are people out there who are really into color
theory who have created some great toolsand palettes. And there is always the
easy, modern, fail-safe design guideline: put white content on black (or dark
content on white), add one color accent, make it helvetica, profit.

<center><img src="/images/post-images/this-week-in-design/helvetica.png"
width="300"/></center>

Go re-skin your old site finally and win some design awards!

*- [Sophie Xie](https://twitter.com/puffins)*
